Enhancements to common questions, migrate with logstash, fix heading order (#22)
elastic/docs-content: serverless/pages/ingest-your-data-ingest-data-through-integrations-logstash.mdx

}
```

## Migrating Elasticsearch data using ((ls))

You can use ((ls)) to migrate data from self-managed ((es)) or ((ess)) to ((es3)), or to migrate data from one ((es3)) deployment to another. 

Create a [((ls)) pipeline](((logstash-ref))/configuration.html) that includes the ((es)) [input plugin](((logstash-ref))/plugins-inputs-elasticsearch.html) and [output plugin](((logstash-ref))/plugins-outputs-elasticsearch.html).

Configure the ((es)) input to point to your source deployment or instance, and configure the ((es)) output with the `cloud_id` and `api_key` settings for your target ((es3)) instance. 

If your origin index is using <DocLink slug="/serverless/elasticsearch/differences">settings that aren't supported in Serverless</DocLink>, then you might need to adjust your index settings. 

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Next steps
```

Reviewer: Looks like you need a break before this section.

}
```

## Migrating Elasticsearch data using ((ls))

You can also use ((ls)) to migrate data into and out of ((es3)) environments with the ((es)) [input plugin](((logstash-ref))/plugins-inputs-elasticsearch.html) and [output plugin](((logstash-ref))/plugins-outputs-elasticsearch.html). 

For each index to be migrated, do the following:

1. Create the index in the destination environment.
2. Add the desired [settings](((ref))/indices-get-settings.html) and [mappings](((ref))/indices-get-mapping.html) to the destination index based on the origin index. 
    
    If you're migrating into an ((es3)) environment, then you might need to adjust your index settings if your origin index is using <DocLink id="serverlessDifferences">settings that aren't supported in Serverless</DocLink>.
3. Run your ((ls)) pipeline to migrate from the origin index to the destination index.

> 

Reviewer: We've been super careful about how we talk about Logstash in serverless. We want users to know that Logstash is an option, but it brings a lot more overhead than will be appropriate for most of our serverless audience. I'm also not sure that we want to emphasize the ability to migrate data out of serverless.  Logstash users would automatically assume that, and it would likely confuse others. 

If you're going for a quick win, how about if we take this out for now and rework it in a separate PR. What's here isn't right.

Reviewer 2: @karenzone we're cognizant needing to careful about positioning around Logstash, however as of this time we need alternatives for users who want to either consolidate project data in Serverless or migrate it back to ESS Hosted (based on support cases). 

See this [discussion](https://elastic.slack.com/archives/C063UKX4V6X/p1717380950059189) for the rationale around adding this section

Reviewer: @linyaru Absolutely! I'm totally on board with this approach. I had some comments and suggestions teed up, but not submitted them.  They're submitted now.

> ## Migrating Elasticsearch data using ((ls))
> 
> You can also use ((ls)) to migrate data into and out of ((es3)) environments with the ((es)) [input plugin](((logstash-ref))/plugins-inputs-elasticsearch.html) and [output plugin](((logstash-ref))/plugins-outputs-elasticsearch.html). 
> 
> For each index to be migrated, do the following:
> 
> 1. Create the index in the destination environment.
> 2. Add the desired [settings](((ref))/indices-get-settings.html) and [mappings](((ref))/indices-get-mapping.html) to the destination index based on the origin index. 
>     
>     If you're migrating into an ((es3)) environment, then you might need to adjust your index settings if your origin index is using <DocLink id="serverlessDifferences">settings that aren't supported in Serverless</DocLink>.
> 3. Run your ((ls)) pipeline to migrate from the origin index to the destination index.
> 

Author: @karenzone thank you so much for sharing your expertise to make this content accurate! I knew it didn't read exactly right.

I think that, given that one of the important use cases we're trying to address is es3->es3, we might want to migrate that info out of the tip into the core content, like so:

```suggestion
## Migrating Elasticsearch data using ((ls))

You can use ((ls)) to migrate data from self-managed ((es)) or ((ess)) to ((es3)), or to combine two or more ((es3)) deployments. 

Create a [((ls)) pipeline](((logstash-ref))/configuration.html) that includes the ((es)) [input plugin](((logstash-ref))/plugins-inputs-elasticsearch.html) and [output plugin](((logstash-ref))/plugins-outputs-elasticsearch.html).

Configure the ((es)) input to point to your source deployment or instance, and configure the ((es)) output with the `cloud_id` and `api_key` settings for your target ((es3)) instance. 

If your origin index is using <DocLink id="serverlessDifferences">settings that aren't supported in Serverless</DocLink>, then you might need to adjust your index settings. 
```

given the tweaks above, the diagram doesn't exactly cover both cases - we could try leaving it out for now and coming back if people are experiencing friction? 

Is there anything we need to say to make it easier for people to understand how to target certain indices? Or is that a pretty obvious thing in the core plugin docs?

> 

Reviewer: I was thinking in terms of primary and then secondary use case, but I'm fine with this approach as well.

> 

Reviewer: As for the graphic, if we decide that it helps with the output-Input -> input-output concept, maybe something like this? 

![es-ls-es](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/assets/35154725/505f5017-fc35-4f8f-b23d-af1aa0e142d7)

> 

Reviewer: > Is there anything we need to say to make it easier for people to understand how to target certain indices? Or is that a pretty obvious thing in the core plugin docs?

Target indexes would be defined in the [`index`](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/plugins-inputs-elasticsearch.html#plugins-inputs-elasticsearch-index) setting for the elasticsearch-input.  You can define a target index, alias, or even define multiple indexes at the same time. 

Note to self @karenzone: The link to [Multi Indices documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/api-conventions.html#api-multi-index) has an [ugly redirect](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/multi-index.html) before displaying the correct content. Fix it in the plugin docs!
